Presets (#117)
stackabletech/listener-operator: docs/modules/listener-operator/pages/listenerclass.adoc

The Listener can be accessed from outside the Kubernetes cluster. This may include the internet, depending on the configuration of the Kubernetes cloud controller manager. A dedicated address will be allocated for the Listener.

Compared to xref:#servicetype-nodeport[], this service type allows Pods to be moved freely between Nodes. However, it requires https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer[a cloud controller manager that supports load balancers]. Additionally, many cloud providers charge for load-balanced traffic.

== Default ListenerClasses

The Stackable Data Platform assumes the existence of a few predefined ListenerClasses, and will use them by default as appropriate:

`cluster-internal`:: Used for listeners that are only accessible internally from the cluster. For example: communication between ZooKeeper nodes.

> `external-unstable`:: Used for listeners that are accessible from outside of the cluster, but which do not require a stable address. For example: individual Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`external-unstable`:: Used for listeners that are accessible from outside the cluster, but which do not require a stable address. For example: individual Kafka brokers.
```

> `external-stable`:: Used for listener that are accessible from outside of the cluster, and do require a stable address. For example: Kafka bootstrap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`external-stable`:: Used for listeners that are accessible from outside the cluster, and do require a stable address. For example: Kafka bootstrap.
```

[#preset-pets]
==== `pets`

The `pets` preset installs ListenerClasses appropriate for Kubernetes clusters that use long-lived "pet nodes". This does _not_ require any particular networking setup, but makes pods that require
stable addresses "sticky" to the Kubernetes Node that they were scheduled to. In addition, downstream operators may generate configurations that refer to particular nodes by name.

The following ListenerClasses are installed:

`cluster-internal`:: xref:#servicetype-clusterip[]
`external-unstable`:: xref:#servicetype-nodeport[]
`external-stable`:: xref:#servicetype-nodeport[]

[#preset-cattle]
==== `cattle`

The `cattle` preset installs ListenerClasses appropriate for Kubernetes clusters that use short-lived "cattle nodes". This makes them appropriate for managed cloud environments, but requires that
a LoadBalancer controller is present in the cluster.

The following ListenerClasses are installed:

`cluster-internal`:: xref:#servicetype-clusterip[]
`external-unstable`:: xref:#servicetype-nodeport[]
`external-stable`:: xref:#servicetype-loadbalancer[]

[#preset-none]
==== `none`

> The `none` (pseudo-)preset installs no ListenerClasses, leaving the administrator to define them for themself.

Reviewer: **nit**

```suggestion
The `none` (pseudo-)preset installs no ListenerClasses, leaving the administrators to define them for themselves.
```
